Now, adding Todos is great,
I also wanna make sure
that we can remove Todos by simply clicking on them.
And that's again another challenge I got for you.
Add the code to this little demo app
that ensures that if we click on a Todo
we remove that Todo.
You will only need things you'll learn up to this point
after a couple of seconds
which you can take to pause the video
to try it on your own.
We will do that together.
So, where are you successful?
Let's know make sure we can remove Todos.
For that I wanna go to the TodoItem
and make sure that we can click that.
And when we click it, we remove a Todo.
For that on this list item here, or TodoItem,
I wanna add the onClick prop,
this built in onClick prop to trigger some code
when that is clicked.
And then here in the end, I wanna point at a function
which I expect to get through props
because that is how we typically do this and how we did that
up to this point, and of course in most demos.
So therefore here, upon a click,
I wanna trigger some function
which is received through props
and hence here we could, for example
expect a prop named onRemoveTodo.
The name is up to you because it's your Component.
But of course, I'm getting some red squiggly lines here,
and why am I getting this?
Because I'm using a prop here, I'm referring to a prop
which I'm not describing here
in my type definition for this Functional Component.
Here, I'm clearly just saying
that this Component function will receive a props object
which has these base props, the children prop
and then my own props here merged into that.
But there, I only have a text prop, nothing else,
no onRemoveTodo prop.
Now, since I wanna accept such an onRemoveTodo prop
we should also describe it here.
So we should make it clear
that we will get an onRemovedTodo prop here as well,
and then set the type of that prop value.
And here that should be a function.
A function which I'm binding to onClick.
So, therefore we can describe a function type here.
We are not interested in the return values.
So here that can be void.
So the function doesn't return anything.
And regarding the argument, the parameter,
we actually also don't need one.
Now in case of onClick.
So since we're passing this function on to onClick
we could actually expect an event argument here
which would be of type React.MouseEvent.
That would be a type we could set here.
This would describe the kind of function
we can pass to onClick accurately.
But actually describing this argument type is optional,
because we might not be using it here
and therefore, thankfully, we can also omit it
and just shorten this function definition
to just this definition.
So now, we're passing this function,
which we'll receive on onRemoveTodo,
which has this shape to onClick.
Now, we need to go to the place where we use TodoItem
and make sure that this prop
with such a kind of value is set.
And that's the Todos.tsx file of course.
Here, we're currently only passing in the text prop
and we should now also pass in the onRemoveTodo prop.
And thankfully, because we use TypeScript here,
we get this auto completion again.
So, now we wanna set onRemoveTodo to such a function
which we're expecting.
Now in the Todos Component,
I actually don't wanna define that function though,
because the Todos are being managed in App.tsx.
So here again, I just, in the end wanna forward
some prop value, which I get in this Component.
So, we're building such a prop chain.
So therefore here we can also accept another prop
in this Todos Component
which is maybe also called onRemoveTodo
but that name is up to you,
but which then also will be a function
that has no parameters
and that then actually also doesn't return anything.
And here we then pass props.onRemoveTodo
as a value to the onRemoveTodo prop of TodoItem.
And that's again, all just what we learned in this course
about passing functions to different Components
and about building these prop chains
for forwarding props through multiple layers of Components.
And then here in App.txs, ultimately, we have to add
onRemoveTodo here on Todos as well.
And now here, I wanna define the function
that should eventually be called,
the removeTodoHandler function, which has a function.
It looks like this.
No arguments and doesn't return anything.
And now it's just removeTodoHandler,
which we pass as a value to onRemoveTodo.
But this function definition is actually not correct.
How would we know which Todo to remove?
In the end here,
I need some identification criteria.
And for Todos since average Todo has a unique id,
getting that id would make a lot of sense.
So in App.tsx does removeTodoHandler,
should actually get the id off that Todo
that has to be removed.
This TodoId which will be of type string.
It will be of type string because that's the type we use
for our ids in this Todos object.
And then was when we get that,
we can actually call set setTodos and use this function form
since we're updating the state based on the previous state.
And then there, we could return prevTodos.filter
to filter out the Todo what we wanna remove
and go through all the Todos
and remove the todo where the id is equal to todoId
and not filter out the other todos.
That's how we can do that.
So, that's how we can remove a Todo
from this list of Todos and how we remove the todo
with that id which we're getting here.
We are checking for an equality here
because we wanna keep all the todos
where the ids do not match
and that's the way we have to look at this.
But we now have a problem.
RemoveTodoHandler now wants this todoId of type string,
but that's not the type of function
onRemoveTodo is giving us here.
In this Todos Component after all,
I said that the function we get here takes no parameters,
and that's simply incorrect.
Indeed, here, we should expect that id
which is of type string,
but now onRemoveTodo on the TodoItem
is having the wrong definition
because there, I'm still saying that we have no parameters.
And again, that's simply incorrect here,
and we can now either update that here
and make sure that we do set the correct Id here,
though, for that we also need to accept it here as a prop
or we go to Todos.tsx and we actually bind onRemoveTodo.
Bind is a default method in JavaScript
which allows us to pre-configure a function
for future execution.
We also saw that a couple of times in this course.
And here, we, first of all set
what this keyword will refer to
in this to be called function,
and we don't care about that here
so, I'll set that to null.
And then we set the first argument
onRemoveTodo will then receive later.
And that should be that id here.
So item.id.
And with that, all the errors are cleared
because now onRemoveTodo will indeed receive that id here
when it's being called.
And that then allows us to properly remove a Todo.
If we now save everything,
if I click on a Todo it is removed.
So, if I add all my Todos here I can delete them
by clicking on them.
And that's now working as we see in the console
also without any errors or warnings.
And that's how we can use the React with TypeScript.
Now to finish this module,
this introductory module here,
I also wanna show you how you can use the context API
with TypeScript, and then we'll wrap this up
and I'll show you which other resources
you can check out to learn more about React in TypeScript.